<ui:composition template="/WEB-INF/templates/showcase.xhtml"
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:o="http://omnifaces.org/ui"
	xmlns:of="http://omnifaces.org/functions"
>
	<ui:define name="description">
		<p>
			JSF's own native managed beans are being deprecated in favor of CDI managed beans. One feature that those native JSF
			managed beans had that's not directly available for CDI managed beans is the ability to eagerly instantiate
			application scoped beans.
		</p>
			
		<p>
			OmniFaces fills this void and even goes one step further by introducing the <code>@Eager</code> annotation
			that can be applied to <code>@RequestScoped</code>, <code>@ViewScoped</code>,
			<code>@SessionScoped</code> and <code>@ApplicationScoped</code> beans. This causes these beans to be instantiated
			automatically at the start of each such scope instead of on demand when a bean is first referenced.
		</p>
			
		<p>
			In case of <code>@RequestScoped</code> and <code>@ViewScoped</code> beans instantiation happens per request URI / view
			and an extra attribute is required for specifying this.
		</p>
		
		<h3>CDI issues in EAR</h3>
		<p>
			Note that CDI has known issues when OmniFaces is bundled in multiple WARs in a single EAR.
			It's important to understand that those issues are not related to OmniFaces, but to the broken CDI spec.
			For an overview of those issues, please refer
			<a href="https://github.com/omnifaces/omnifaces/wiki/Known-Issues-(CDI)">Known issues of OmniFaces CDI features in combination with specific application servers</a>. 
		</p>
	</ui:define>

	<ui:define name="demo">
		<h3>Bean instantiated at beginning of request</h3>
		<p>
			A bean annotated with <code>@Model</code> <small>(a stereotype for @RequestScoped and @Named)</small> 
			has been annotated with <code>@Eager</code> setting <code>requestURI</code> to the URI of this page relative to the 
			application root.
			For the demo the <code>@PostConstruct</code> method will grab the current nano seconds time. When the bean is referenced
			on this page it will show the elapsed time in nanoseconds.
		</p>
		<p>
			One usecase for this feature in a real application could be calling an <code>@Asynchronous</code> annotated method that
			loads data from a database and returns a <code>Future</code>. That way loading of this data and the processing of the
			request pipeline plus the building and rendering of a view up till the moment the <code>Future</code> is referenced 
			can overlap.
		</p>
		
		<blockquote>
			Elapsed time in nanoseconds since <code>@Eager @RequestScoped</code> bean initiated at the start of this request: <strong>#{myEagerRequestBean.elapsedTime} ns</strong>.
			<br/>
			As comparison, elapsed time in nanoseconds since non-<code>@Eager @RequestScoped</code> bean initiated in this request: <strong>#{myRequestBean.elapsedTime} ns</strong>.
			<br/>
			So, you have <strong>#{myEagerRequestBean.elapsedTime - myRequestBean.elapsedTime} ns</strong> time space to perform some <code>@Asyhchronous</code> initialization.
		</blockquote>
		
		<h3>Bean instantiated when application starts up</h3>
		<p>
			A bean has been annotated with <code>@Startup</code> <small>(a stereotype for @Eager and @ApplicationScoped)</small> and
			sets its startupDate property in the <code>@PostConstruct</code> method, which will thus represent the time this
			application started.			
		</p>
		<blockquote>
			Application started at: <strong>#{of:formatDateWithTimezone(myStartupBean.startupDate, 'd MMM yyyy HH:mm', 'UTC')} UTC</strong>
		</blockquote>
	</ui:define>
</ui:composition>