<ui:composition template="/WEB-INF/templates/showcase.xhtml" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core" 
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
    xmlns:p="http://primefaces.org/ui" 
	xmlns:o="http://omnifaces.org/ui"
    xmlns:of="http://omnifaces.org/functions"
    xmlns:demo="http://omnifaces.org/showcase"
>
	<ui:define name="meta">
		<f:metadata>
			<f:attribute name="api.path" value="component/util/MoveComponent" />
			<f:attribute name="vdl.paths" value="o/moveComponent" />
			<f:attribute name="src.paths" value="tags/globalSearch.xhtml,classes/org/omnifaces/showcase/components/util/MoveComponent.java" />
		</f:metadata>
	</ui:define>

	<ui:define name="demo">
		<h3>Showing number of search results in PrimeFaces table</h3>
        
        <p>
        The PrimeFaces data table component is notoriously difficult to modify when it comes to the build-in filter/search capabilities.
        Required components with fixed IDs ("globalFilter") and the fact that filtering is applied in the render stage are among the
        things that make this surprisingly difficult in practice. 
        </p>
        
        <p>
        With the help of the o:moveComponent the required modification actions can be packed up in a Facelets tag file for reuse.
        The following shows an example: 
        </p>
        
        <ui:param name="for" value="myTable" />
        
        <hr/>
        
        <small>
        <demo:globalSearch for="myTable"/>

        <h:form>
            <p:dataTable id="myTable" value="#{myTableBacking.users}" var="user" filteredValue="#{myTableBacking.filteredUsers}" widgetVar="myTableVar">
                <p:column filterBy="#{user.firstName}" filterMatchMode="contains">  
                    #{user.firstName}
                </p:column>
    
                <p:column filterBy="#{user.lastName}" filterMatchMode="contains">  
                    #{user.firstName}
                </p:column>
    
                <p:column filterBy=" #{user.age}" filterMatchMode="contains">  
                    #{user.age}
                </p:column>
            </p:dataTable>
        </h:form>
        <hr/>
        
        <p>
        So what's going on here? The <b>demo:globalSearch</b> tag <i>(see second tab in the source code section below)</i> contains 3 instances
        of the o:moveComponent.
        </p>
        
        
        <h4>1. Moving a script to reside after the table</h4>
        
        <p>
        The first moveComponent instance has a JavaScript surrounded by a named panel group as its children. These components are moved in the tree
        to sit right after the table component. This script takes the number of elements that appear in the so-called filtered collection and updates
        another panel group with that number.<br/> <br/> 
        The script needs to be placed AFTER the table component, because the number we need is only available
        when the table is actually rendered, so it's only available to components (and EL expressions within those) that are rendered after the table
        is rendered. This somewhat defeats the purpose of the phases in JSF (an important reason for which is to prevent just this location dependency),
        but with the o:moveComponent we can hide this somewhat nasty detail for the tag user.
        </p>
        
        <h4>2. Moving an AJAX event listener into the table</h4>
        
        <p>
        The second moveComponent instance has an AJAX event listener as its child. The event listener makes sure the JavaScript that we defined above is
        updated after each filtering operation.<br/> <br/> 
        
        An AJAX event listener is not a component but a behavior. It therefore  needs some extra handling. <i>(among others to fool it that it's temporarily
        a child of the moveComponent which does not have the events a behavior can be checking for)</i> It's moved to the special behavior section 
        components have.
        </p>
        
        <h4>3. Moving a component into the facet section of the table</h4> 
        
        <p>
        The third moveComponent instance has a placeholder component with the fixed ID 'globalFilter' as its child. This component is used by PrimeFaces
        to read the input used by the filtering operation from.<br/> <br/> 
        
        This placeholder component is needed for this example, since we wanted to have the real input component just above the table, not inside the table.
        The standard PrimeFaces approach with the facet tightly couples the location of the input component, which we here thus decouple. The real input
        component updates the placecholder using its <code>onkeyup</code> attribute.
        </p>
         </small>
        

    </ui:define>
</ui:composition>