<ui:composition template="/WEB-INF/templates/showcase.xhtml"
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:o="http://omnifaces.org/ui"
>
	<ui:define name="description">
		<p>
			This filter will control the cache-related headers of the response. Cache-related headers have a major impact on
			performance (network bandwidth and server load) and user experience (up to date content and non-expired views).
		</p>
		<p>
			By default, when no initialization parameters are specified, the filter will instruct the client (generally, the
			webbrowser) to <strong>not</strong> cache the response. This is recommended on dynamic pages with stateful forms with
			a <code>javax.faces.ViewState</code> hidden field. If such a page were cached, and the enduser navigates to it by
			webbrowser's back button, and then re-submits it, then the enduser would face a
			<a href="http://stackoverflow.com/a/3642969/157882"><code>ViewExpiredException</code></a>.
		</p>
		<p>
			However, on stateless resources, caching the response would be beneficial. Set the expire time to the same time as
			you'd like to use as refresh interval of the resource, which can be 10 seconds (to avoid F5-madness on resources
			which are subject to quick changes), but also minutes or even hours, days or weeks. For example, a list of links, a
			news page, a JS/CSS/image file, etc.
		</p>
		<p>
			Any sane server and client adheres the following rules as to caching:
		</p>
		<ul>
			<li>
				When the enduser performs page-to-page navigation, or when the enduser selects URL in address bar and presses
				enter key again, while the resource is cached, then the client will just load it from the cache without hitting the
				server in any way.
			</li>
			<li>
				Or when the cache is expired, or when the enduser does a soft-refresh by pressing refresh button or F5 key, then:
				<ul>
					<li>
						When the <code>ETag</code> or <code>Last-Modified</code> header is present on cached resource, then the client
						will perform a so-called conditional GET request with <code>If-None-Match</code> or <code>If-Modified-Since</code>
						headers. If the server responds with HTTP status 304 ("not modified") along with the updated cache-related headers,
						then the client will keep the resource in cache and expand its expire time based on the headers. Note:
						<code>ETag</code> takes precedence over <code>Last-Modified</code> when both are present and consequently
						<code>If-None-Match</code> takes precedence over <code>If-Modified-Since</code> when both are present.
					</li>
					<li>
						When those headers are <strong>not</strong> present, then the behavior is the same as during a hard-refresh.
					</li>
				</ul>
			</li>
			<li>
				Or when the resource is not cached, or when the enduser does a hard-refresh by pressing <code>Ctrl</code> key
				along with refresh button or F5, then the webbrowser will perform a fresh new request and purge any cached resource.
			</li>
		</ul>
		<p>
			<strong>Important notice</strong>: this filter automatically skips JSF resources, such as the ones served by
			<code>&lt;h:outputScript&gt;</code>, <code>&lt;h:outputStylesheet&gt;</code>, <code>@ResourceDependency</code>, etc.
			Their cache-related headers are namely <a href="http://stackoverflow.com/q/15057932/157882">already</a> controlled
			by the <code>ResourceHandler</code> implementation. In Mojarra and MyFaces, the default expiration time is 1 week
			(604800000 milliseconds), which can be configured by a <code>web.xml</code> context parameter with the following name and
			a value in milliseconds, e.g. <code>3628800000</code> for 6 weeks:
		</p>
		<ul>
			<li>Mojarra: <code>com.sun.faces.defaultResourceMaxAge</code></li>
			<li>MyFaces: <code>org.apache.myfaces.RESOURCE_MAX_TIME_EXPIRES</code></li>
		</ul>
		<p>
			It would not make sense to control their cache-related headers with this filter as they would be overridden anyway.
		</p>

		<h3>Configuration</h3>
		<p>
			This filter supports the <code>expires</code> initialization parameter which must be a number between 0 and 999999999
			with optionally the 'w', 'd', 'h', 'm' or 's' suffix standing for respectively 'week', 'day', 'hour', 'minute' and
			'second'. For example: '6w' is 6 weeks. The default suffix is 's'. So, when the suffix is omitted, it's treated as
			seconds. For example: '86400' is 86400 seconds, which is effectively equal to '86400s', '1440m', '24h' and '1d'.
		</p>
		<p>
			Imagine that you've the following resources:
		</p>
		<ul>
			<li>All <code>/forum/*</code> pages: cache 10 seconds.</li>
			<li>All <code>*.pdf</code> and <code>*.zip</code> files: cache 2 days.</li>
			<li>All other pages: no cache.</li>
		</ul>
		<p>
			Then you can configure the filter as follows (filter name is fully free to your choice, but keep it sensible):
		</p>
		<pre class="prettyprint"><code class="lang-xml">
&lt;filter&gt;
    &lt;filter-name&gt;noCache&lt;/filter-name&gt;
    &lt;filter-class&gt;org.omnifaces.filter.CacheControlFilter&lt;/filter-class&gt;
&lt;/filter&gt;
&lt;filter&gt;
    &lt;filter-name&gt;cache10seconds&lt;/filter-name&gt;
    &lt;filter-class&gt;org.omnifaces.filter.CacheControlFilter&lt;/filter-class&gt;
    &lt;init-param&gt;
      &lt;param-name&gt;expires&lt;/param-name&gt;
      &lt;param-value&gt;10s&lt;/param-value&gt;
    &lt;/init-param&gt;
&lt;/filter&gt;
&lt;filter&gt;
    &lt;filter-name&gt;cache2days&lt;/filter-name&gt;
    &lt;filter-class&gt;org.omnifaces.filter.CacheControlFilter&lt;/filter-class&gt;
    &lt;init-param&gt;
      &lt;param-name&gt;expires&lt;/param-name&gt;
      &lt;param-value&gt;2d&lt;/param-value&gt;
    &lt;/init-param&gt;
&lt;/filter&gt;

&lt;filter-mapping&gt;
    &lt;filter-name&gt;noCache&lt;/filter-name&gt;
    &lt;url-pattern&gt;/*&lt;/url-pattern&gt;
&lt;/filter-mapping&gt;
&lt;filter-mapping&gt;
    &lt;filter-name&gt;cache10seconds&lt;/filter-name&gt;
    &lt;url-pattern&gt;/forum/*&lt;/url-pattern&gt;
&lt;/filter-mapping&gt;
&lt;filter-mapping&gt;
    &lt;filter-name&gt;cache2days&lt;/filter-name&gt;
    &lt;url-pattern&gt;*.pdf&lt;/url-pattern&gt;
    &lt;url-pattern&gt;*.zip&lt;/url-pattern&gt;
&lt;/filter-mapping&gt;
		</code></pre>
		<p>
			Note: put the more specific URL patterns in the end of filter mappings. Due to the way how filters work, there's
			unfortunately no simple way to skip the filter on <code>/*</code> when e.g. <code>*.pdf</code> is matched. You can
			always map the no cache filter specifically to <code>FacesServlet</code> if you intend to disable caching on
			<strong>all</strong> JSF pages. Here's an example assuming that you've configured the <code>FacesServlet</code> with
			a servlet name of <code>facesServlet</code>:
		</p>
		<pre class="prettyprint"><code class="lang-xml">
&lt;filter-mapping&gt;
  &lt;filter-name&gt;noCache&lt;/filter-name&gt;
  &lt;servlet-name&gt;facesServlet&lt;/servlet-name&gt;
&lt;/filter-mapping&gt;
		</code></pre>

		<h3>Actual headers</h3>
		<p>
			If the <code>expires</code> init param is set with a value which represents a time larger than 0 seconds, then the
			following headers will be set:
		</p>
		<ul>
			<li><code>Cache-Control: public,max-age=[expiration time in seconds],must-revalidate</code></li>
			<li><code>Expires: [expiration date of now plus expiration time in seconds]</code></li>
		</ul>
		<p>
			If the <code>expires</code> init param is absent, or set with a value which represents a time equal to 0 seconds,
			then the following headers will be set:
		</p>
		<ul>
			<li><code>Cache-Control: no-cache,no-store,must-revalidate</code></li>
			<li><code>Expires: [expiration date of 0]</code></li>
			<li><code>Pragma: no-cache</code></li>
		</ul>

		<h3>Demo</h3>
		<p>
			The <code>CacheControlFilter</code> is also 
			<a href="http://code.google.com/p/omnifaces-showcase/source/browse/WebContent/WEB-INF/web.xml">configured</a>
			on this showcase application. You can see it by no-cache related headers being set on JSF pages throughout
			the showcase application and by the presence of the filter in stacktraces of showcase pages demonstrating some exceptions.
		</p>			
	</ui:define>		
</ui:composition>