<ui:composition template="/WEB-INF/templates/showcase.xhtml"
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:o="http://omnifaces.org/ui"
>
	<ui:define name="description">
		<p>
			<strong>ValidateUniqueColumn</strong> validates if the given <code>UIInput</code> component in an <code>UIData</code> component
			has an unique value throughout all rows, also those not visible by pagination. This validator works directly on the
			data model and may therefore not work as expected if the data model does not represent <strong>all</strong> available
			rows of the <code>UIData</code> component (e.g. when there's means of lazy loading).
		</p>
		<p>
			Usage example:
		</p>
		<pre class="prettyprint"><code class="lang-xhtml">
&lt;h:dataTable value="\#{bean.items}" var="item"&gt;
    &lt;h:column&gt;
        &lt;h:inputText value="\#{item.value}"&gt;
            &lt;o:validateUniqueColumn /&gt;
        &lt;/h:inputText&gt;
    &lt;/h:column&gt;
&lt;/h:dataTable&gt;
		</code></pre>
		<p>
			In an invalidating case, only the first row on which the value is actually changed (i.e. the value change event has
			been fired on the input component in the particular row) will be marked invalid and a faces message will be added
			on the client ID of the input component in the particular row. The default message can be changed by the
			<code>message</code> attribute. Any "{0}" placeholder in the message will be substituted with the label of the
			input component. Any "{1}" placeholder in the message will be substituted with the 1-based row index of the data
			model. Note that this does not take pagination into account and that this needs if necessary to be taken care of in
			the custom message yourself.
		</p>
		<pre class="prettyprint"><code class="lang-xhtml">
&lt;o:validateUniqueColumn message="Duplicate value!" /&gt;
		</code></pre>
	</ui:define>

	<ui:define name="demo">
		<h:form>
			<h3>Please fill out an unique value in all inputs of this column.</h3>
			<h:dataTable value="#{validateUniqueColumnBean.entities}" var="entity">
				<h:column>
					#{component.rowIndex + 1}
				</h:column>
				<h:column>
					<h:inputText id="value" label="Value" value="#{entity.value}" required="true">
						<o:validateUniqueColumn />
					</h:inputText>
				</h:column>
				<h:column>
					<h:message id="message" for="value" />
				</h:column>
			</h:dataTable>
			<h:commandButton value="Submit">
				<f:ajax execute="@form" render="@form" />
			</h:commandButton>
			<h:outputText value="OK!" rendered="#{facesContext.postback and not facesContext.validationFailed}" />
		</h:form>
	</ui:define>
</ui:composition>