<ui:composition template="/WEB-INF/templates/showcase.xhtml"
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:o="http://omnifaces.org/ui"
>
	<ui:define name="description">
		<p>
			The <code>omnifaces.GenericEnumConverter</code> is intented for use in <code>UISelectMany</code> components
			(such as <code>&lt;h:selectManyCheckbox&gt;</code>, <code>&lt;h:selectManyListbox&gt;</code> and <code>&lt;h:selectManyMenu&gt;</code>) 
			whose value is been bound to a <code>List&lt;E&gt;</code> property where <code>E</code> is an enum. Even though JSF has already a builtin 
			<a href=""><code>EnumConverter</code></a>,
			this doesn't work for a <code>List&lt;E&gt;</code> property as the generic type infomation <code>E</code> is
			lost during runtime. The list would be filled with unconverted <code>String</code> values instead which may
			in turn cause <code>ClassCastException</code> during postprocessing in the business logic.
		</p>
		<p>
			This can be solved by using a <code>E[]</code> property instead of <code>List&lt;E&gt;</code>
			(e.g. <code>Role[]</code> in case of a <code>Role</code> enum). If this is however is not an option due to 
			some design restrictions (e.g. JPA <code>@ElementCollection</code>, etc), then you'd need to create an 
			explicit converter for the enum type like follows:
		</p>
		<pre class="prettyprint"><code class="code-java">
@FacesConverter("roleConverter")
public class RoleConverter extends EnumConverter {
    public RoleConverter() {
        super(Role.class);
    }
}
		</code></pre>
		<pre class="prettyprint"><code class="code-xhtml">
&lt;h:selectManyCheckbox value="\#{bean.selectedRoles}" converter="roleConverter"&gt;
    &lt;f:selectItems value="\#{bean.availableRoles}" /&gt;
&lt;/h:selectManyCheckbox&gt;
		</code></pre>
		<p>
			However, creating a new converter for every single enum type, only and only for use in <code>UISelectMany</code>
			with a <code>List&lt;E&gt;</code> property, may be a bit clumsy. This generic enum converter is intented to remove the need
			to create a new enum converter everytime.
		</p>
		
		<h3>Usage</h3>
		<p>
			This converter is available by converter ID <code>omnifaces.GenericEnumConverter</code>. Here is a basic 
			usage example:
		</p>
		<pre class="prettyprint"><code class="code-xhtml">
&lt;h:selectManyCheckbox value="\#{bean.selectedEnums}" converter="omnifaces.GenericEnumConverter"&gt;
    &lt;f:selectItems value="\#{bean.availableEnums}" /&gt;
&lt;/h:selectManyCheckbox&gt;
		</code></pre>
		<p>
			Note: this is not necessary in newer MyFaces versions, it will by itself extract the right type from the parameterized type.
		</p>
	</ui:define>

	<ui:define name="demo">
		<o:importConstants type="org.omnifaces.showcase.model.ExampleEnum" />
	
		<h3>With <code>ExampleEnum[]</code> - works fine</h3>
		<h:form>
			<h:selectManyCheckbox value="#{genericEnumBean.enumArray}">
				<f:selectItems value="#{ExampleEnum}" />
				<f:ajax render="showSelected" />
			</h:selectManyCheckbox>
			<p>Selected:
				<h:panelGroup id="showSelected">
					<ui:repeat value="#{genericEnumBean.enumArray}" var="item" varStatus="loop">
						#{item} (#{item['class'].simpleName})#{loop.last ? '' : ','}
					</ui:repeat>
				</h:panelGroup>
			</p>
		</h:form>

		<hr />

		<h3>With <code>List&lt;ExampleEnum&gt;</code> - wrong type has been set!</h3>
		<h:form>
			<h:selectManyCheckbox value="#{genericEnumBean.enumList}">
				<f:selectItems value="#{ExampleEnum}" />
				<f:ajax render="showSelected" />
			</h:selectManyCheckbox>
			<p>Selected:
				<h:panelGroup id="showSelected">
					<ui:repeat value="#{genericEnumBean.enumList}" var="item" varStatus="loop">
						#{item} (#{item['class'].simpleName})#{loop.last ? '' : ','}
					</ui:repeat>
				</h:panelGroup>
			</p>
		</h:form>

		<hr />

		<h3>With <code>List&lt;ExampleEnum&gt;</code> and <code>omnifaces.GenericEnumConverter</code> - works fine</h3>
		<h:form>
			<h:selectManyCheckbox value="#{genericEnumBean.enumListConverted}" converter="omnifaces.GenericEnumConverter">
				<f:selectItems value="#{ExampleEnum}" />
				<f:ajax render="showSelected" />
			</h:selectManyCheckbox>
			<p>Selected:
				<h:panelGroup id="showSelected">
					<ui:repeat value="#{genericEnumBean.enumListConverted}" var="item" varStatus="loop">
						#{item} (#{item['class'].simpleName})#{loop.last ? '' : ','}
					</ui:repeat>
				</h:panelGroup>
			</p>
		</h:form>
	</ui:define>
</ui:composition>