<ui:composition template="/WEB-INF/templates/showcase.xhtml"
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:o="http://omnifaces.org/ui"
>
	<ui:define name="description">
		<p>
			Collection of utility methods for the JSF API that are mainly shortcuts for obtaining stuff from the thread
			local <code>FacesContext</code>. In effects, it 'flattens' the hierarchy of nested objects. Do note that 
			using the hierarchy is actually a better software design practice, but can lead to verbose code.
		</p>
		<p>
			Next to those oneliner delegate calls, there are also some helpful methods which eliminates multiline 
			boilerplate code, such as
			<a href="#{_apiURL}org/omnifaces/util/Faces.html#getLocale()"><code>getLocale()</code></a>
			which returns sane fallback values, a more convenient
			<a href="#{_apiURL}org/omnifaces/util/Faces.html#redirect(java.lang.String, java.lang.String...)"><code>redirect()</code></a>
			which automatically prepends the context path when the path does not start with <code>/</code> and offers support
			for URL encoding of request parameters supplied by varargs argument, and several useful
			<a href="#{_apiURL}org/omnifaces/util/Faces.html#sendFile(java.io.File, boolean)"><code>sendFile()</code></a>
			methods which allows you to provide a <code>File</code>, <code>byte[]</code> or <code>InputStream</code> as a download to the client.
		</p>
		<p>
			Some examples (for the full list, check the API documentation):
		</p>
		<pre class="prettyprint"><code class="lang-java">
// Get a session attribute (no explicit cast necessary!).
User user = Faces.getSessionAttribute("user");

// Evaluate EL programmatically (no explicit cast necessary!).
Item item = Faces.evaluateExpressionGet("\#{item}");

// Get a cookie value.
String cookieValue = Faces.getRequestCookie("cookieName");

// Get all supported locales with default locale as first item.
List&lt;Locale&gt; supportedLocales = Faces.getSupportedLocales();

// Check in e.g. preRenderView if session has been timed out.
if (Faces.hasSessionTimedOut()) {
    Messages.addGlobalWarn("Oops, you have been logged out because your session was been timed out!");
}

// Get value of &lt;f:metadata&gt;&lt;f:attribute name="foo"&gt; of different view without building it.
String foo = Faces.getMetadataAttribute("/other.xhtml", "foo");

// Send a redirect with parameters UTF-8 encoded in query string.
Faces.redirect("product.xhtml?id=%d&amp;name=%s", product.getId(), product.getName());

// Invalidate the session and send a redirect.
public void logout() throws IOException {
    Faces.invalidateSession();
    Faces.redirect("login.xhtml"); // Can by the way also be done by return "login?faces-redirect=true" if in action method.
}

// Provide a file as attachment.
public void download() throws IOException {
    Faces.sendFile(new File("/path/to/file.ext"), true);
}
		</code></pre>
		<p>
			If you need to invoke "a lot" of <code>Faces</code> methods within the very same method block and worry about performance,
			then you may want to consider using <h:link outcome="/utils/FacesLocal"><code>FacesLocal</code></h:link> instead.
		</p>
		<ui:include src="/WEB-INF/includes/utils/feature-request.xhtml" />
	</ui:define>		
</ui:composition>