<ui:composition template="/WEB-INF/templates/showcase.xhtml"
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:o="http://omnifaces.org/ui"
	xmlns:of="http://omnifaces.org/functions"
>
	<ui:define name="description">
		<p>
			The CDI annotation <code>@Param</code> allows you to inject, convert and validate a HTTP request parameter
			in a CDI managed bean. It's basically like <code>&lt;f:viewParam&gt;</code>, but with the major difference
			that the injected HTTP request parameter is available during <code>@PostConstruct</code>, allowing a much easier
			way of processing without the need for a <code>&lt;f:event type="preRenderView"&gt;</code>. 
		</p>

		<h3>CDI issues in EAR</h3>
		<p>
			Note that CDI has known issues when OmniFaces is bundled in multiple WARs in a single EAR.
			It's important to understand that those issues are not related to OmniFaces, but to the broken CDI spec.
			For an overview of those issues, please refer
			<a href="https://github.com/omnifaces/omnifaces/wiki/Known-Issues-(CDI)">Known issues of OmniFaces CDI features in combination with specific application servers</a>. 
		</p>
	</ui:define>

	<ui:define name="demo">
		<p>Click the links below:</p>
		<ul>
			<li>
				<h:link value="Set all params">
					<f:param name="text1" value="foo" />
					<f:param name="text2" value="bar" />
					<f:param name="text3" value="baz" />
					<f:param name="number" value="42" />
					<f:param name="date" value="19780326" />
					<f:param name="nsEntity" value="abc" />
				</h:link>
			</li>
			<li>
				<h:link value="Omit required param and set wrong values on others">
					<f:param name="text2" value="x" />
					<f:param name="number" value="NaN" />
					<f:param name="date" value="26 Mar 1978" />
				</h:link>
			</li>
		</ul>
		<p>The following parameters will be injected and validated as:</p>
		<ul>
			<li>"text1" is injected as <code>String</code>(*) and is validated as JSF <code>required="true"</code></li>
			<li>"text2" is injected as <code>String</code> and is validated as 
				JSF <code>&lt;f:validateLength minimum="3"&gt;
			</code></li>
			<li>"text3" is injected as <code>String</code> and is validated as JSR303 (Bean Validation) <code>@NotNull</code>(**)</li>
			<li>"number" is injected as <code>Integer</code> with automatic JSF integer conversion</li>
			<li>"date" is injected as <code>Date</code> and is converted as 
				JSF <code>&lt;f:convertDateTime pattern="yyyyMMdd"&gt;</code>
			</li>
			<li>"nsEntity" is injected as <code>NonSerializableEntity</code> and is 
				converted as JSF <code>&lt;f:converter converterId="nonSerializableEntityConverter"/&gt;</code>
				<small>(the example also demonstrates support for non-serializable values, which is important for CDI's passivating scopes)</small>
			</li>
		</ul>
		
		<p>Result: #{cdiParamBean.result}</p>
		<h:messages styleClass="messages" infoClass="info" errorClass="error" />
		
		<p>
			*) <code>String</code> is actually not injected itself, but is wrapped in a value holder class called <code>ParamValue</code>. This is
			due to the fact that a CDI producer cannot produce an arbitrary object and a parameterized wrapper type is needed. For OmniFaces 1.7
			we plan to look into a CDI extension to work around this and directly inject the converted type. <code>ParamValue</code> does have
			merit on its own though, as it allows access to the raw (non-converted) value and allows non-serializable types to be injected into
			a passivation capable bean. This last feature works by reconverting from the raw value after a bean is restored (changes made to the
			converted instance before passivation took place will be lost though).
		</p>
		
		<p>
			**) <b>NOTE:</b> bean validation at the moment is done against the <code>ParamValue</code> instance that is injected. 
			In many cases this will only be of limited use. We hope to directly inject the converted type in a future OmniFaces version and then bean validation 
			will make more sense.
		</p>
		
	</ui:define>
</ui:composition>