<ui:composition template="/WEB-INF/templates/showcase.xhtml"
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
	xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
	xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
	xmlns:p="http://primefaces.org/ui"
	xmlns:o="http://omnifaces.org/ui"
	xmlns:of="http://omnifaces.org/functions"
>
	<ui:define name="description">
		<p>
			OmniFaces has the <h:link value="SelectItemsConverter" outcome="/converters/SelectItemsConverter"/>
			that allows you to populate e.g. a drop-down with complex Java objects and have JSF convert those automatically back 
			without the need to provide a custom converter which may need to do the job based on possibly expensive 
			service/DAO operations. This works with the select items that are nested inside a component.
		</p>
		
		<p>
			A select few components in JSF don't use select items as the source for their selectable items, but work directly
			via a list. To accomodate the same automatic conversion of complex Java objects for these components as well
			OmniFaces provides the <code>omnifaces.ListConverter</code> and 
			<h:link value="omnifaces.ListIndexConverter" outcome="/converters/ListIndexConverter"/> converters. This page
			demoes the <code>omnifaces.ListConverter</code>. The pros and cons of the conversion using the list index
			are described on the <h:link value="SelectItemsIndexConverter" outcome="/converters/SelectItemsIndexConverter"/> demo page.
			(which are pretty much the reverse of the pros and cons for the <code>omnifaces.ListConverter</code>).
		</p>
		
		<p>
			The base converter uses by default the <code>toString()</code> method of the object to uniquely identify 
			the object during the conversion. Since this is not the typical use case for <code>toString()</code>, it is
			recommended to extend the <code>ListConverter</code> class and override <b>only</b> the 
			<code>getAsString</code> method wherein the desired implementation is provided.
		</p>
		<p>
			For example:
		</p>
		<pre class="prettyprint"><code class="code-java">
@FacesConverter("exampleEntityListConverter")
public class ExampleEntityListConverter extends ListConverter {

    @Override
    public String getAsString(FacesContext context, UIComponent component, Object value) {
        Long id = (value instanceof ExampleEntity) ? ((ExampleEntity) value).getId() : null;
        return (id != null) ? String.valueOf(id) : null;
    }

}
		</code></pre>
		
		<p>
			Unlike select items, there is no dedicated location to fetch such list from, so the list that is used as source
			for whatever mechanism the component uses has to be provided to the converter. For providing this parameter
			to the converter the <h:link value="o:converter" outcome="/taghandlers/converter" /> can be used.
		</p>
		
		<p>
			The demo belows shows the PrimeFaces 
			<a href="http://primefaces.org/showcase/ui/picklist.jsf"><code>&lt;p:pickList&gt;</code></a>
			component, which is a famous example of a component that does not use select items. Another example of such a PrimeFaces component is the
			<a href="http://primefaces.org/showcase/ui/autoCompleteBasic.jsf"><code>&lt;p:autoComplete&gt;</code></a>.
		</p>
	</ui:define>

	<ui:define name="demo">
		<h:form>
			<p>
				<b>Selected items</b>:
				<ui:fragment rendered="#{not empty selectListBean.selected}">
					<ui:repeat value="#{selectListBean.selected}" var="entity" varStatus="loop">
						#{entity.value}#{loop.last ? '' : ', '}
					</ui:repeat>
				</ui:fragment>
				<h:outputText value="[no selection made]" rendered="#{empty selectListBean.selected}"/>
			</p>
		
			<p>
				<b>Choose a city, then press Select</b>:
				<p:pickList value="#{selectListBean.all}" var="entity" itemValue="#{entity}" itemLabel="#{entity.value}">
					<o:converter converterId="omnifaces.ListConverter" list="#{selectListBean.source}" />
				</p:pickList>
			</p>
			
			<p>
				<h:commandButton value="Select">
					<f:ajax execute="@form" render="@form"/>
				</h:commandButton>
			</p>
		</h:form>
	</ui:define>
</ui:composition>